---
layout: default
published: true
title: Card Decks
category: parent card_deck
---

Card decks in Roll20 are a collection of one or more cards that can be shuffled, drawn, dealt to players, and played onto the tabletop. You manage your campaign's decks under the My Settings menu.

(SS of card decks)

Every campaign gets a deck of standard playing cards already set up and ready to go. You can also click the "Add" button next to the Decks header to create your own custom decks.

Here's a screencast which shows the general overview of the card system in Roll20; there are further detailed instructions below.

<iframe width="640" height="360" src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/BKTcYrvIB-k?rel=0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Hiding/Showing Decks

By default, decks are hidden. If you want to interact with a deck, click the Show button. The deck will appear along the right-hand side of the tabletop area, and depending on the settings of the deck it will be visible to players and/or the GM. 

## Drawing cards

Mouseover the deck to interact with it. The most basic action is to draw the next card from the deck, which you can do by just clicking toward the top of the deck, where the next card is "peeking out" from behind the deck. The card will be drawn and shown on top of the deck, and anyone (including players) who has permission to see the deck will also see what card was just drawn.

## Playing Cards

If you want to play a card from the deck to the tabletop, you can click and drag on the card you just drew (the top card on the deck, that's facing up) and drop it onto the tabletop. It will appear as a token on the tabletop that you can move and resize just like a regular token. You can also drag and drop the next card (the one you would normally click on to draw the card) directly from behind the deck onto the tabletop, and this will play the card to the table without first revealing what the card is. 

Holding the Shift key while you drag the card onto the tabletop will play it to the tabletop face down instead of face up (which is the default). You can also right-click on an already-played card to flip it over and switch between face up or face down.

## Dealing Cards

You can also deal cards to players. This allows players to have a collection of cards in their "hand" just like at a real tabletop. To do so, just drag a card from the back of the deck (like you would if you were playing it to the tabletop or drawing it) or the top of the deck (if the card has already been drawn), and drop the card onto the name of the player along the bottom-left side of the tabletop area. You will see a little icon of the deck appear above the player's avatar along with a number representing how many cards that player has in their hand.

(Screenshot of player area hand)

If you want to deal multiple cards at once, you can choose "Deal" from the deck menu that appears when you mouseover the deck. This will let you deal many cards to each player (or specific players) at once.

Players can also pick up cards that have been played onto the tabletop as tokens by right-clicking on the card and choosing "Take Card."

## Using Hands

After the players have been dealt cards and have one or more hands, then can click on the card icon above their avatar to open the hand. They can view the cards in their hand, as well as drag and drop to re-order their hand, or even drag cards between hands to consolidate their cards. If they drag a card from their hand onto the tabletop, it will play the card onto the table, removing it from their hand.

(Screenshot of opened hand)

## Stealing Cards

Players can also open each other's hands, and by default they will only see the back of the other player's cards. If they mouseover a card in another player's hand, they have the option to "steal" that card. A dialog box will popup for the player they are stealing from to let them confirm the action. This is useful in games where players can steal from each other's hands, without seeing the card first.

(Screenshot of confirm steal)

## Trading Cards

If a player drags a card out of their hand and onto another player's name, it will intiate a trade between the two players. The players will both see a dialog box which lets them add and remove cards from the trade, and when both have confirmed the trade is acceptable it will proceed.

(Screenshot of trading)

## Adding/Editing Decks

If you click on the name of the deck (in the deck listing of the My Settings tab), you'll open up a dialog box with additional options and settings:

**Name**: The name of the deck, shown when you mouseover the deck while it is visible

**Show deck to players?** If checked, players will see the deck and any cards drawn onto the top of the deck. If unchecked, only the GM will see the deck.

**Players can draw cards?** Determines whether players or only the GM can draw cards from the deck.

**Cards in deck are infinite?** If checked, the cards from the deck will never run out. Otherwise, once all cards have been drawn from the deck you'll need to recall and shuffle to keep drawing (just like a real physical deck).

**In other's hands** These options determine the visiblity of cards that are dealt to player hands. Number of cards means that the GM/player will see the number of cards in the player's hand. Front of cards means the GM/player can also see what the card is, instead of just the back of the card. By default the GM and players both see only the number of cards in players hands, but not what they are.

## Adding/Editing Cards

Underneath the deck's options you will see a listing of each card in the deck. Click the "Add" button to add a new card, or click on the name of an existing card to edit it. Doing so will bring up a dialog box with additional settings for that card, which allow you to set the card's name and upload an image for the card, as well as a button to delete the card.

Below the listing of cards you will also see a place to upload an image to serve as the "back face" of all the cards for this deck.

**Important Note:** Your card faces and card back should all have the same dimensions for best results!

