---
layout: default
published: true
title: Roll20 API
---

<div class="alert alert-info">The Roll20 API is currently only available to Mentor subscribers on the Roll20 Dev Server.</div>

<div class="alert alert-danger">The Roll20 API is in heavy development. It is highly subject to change. Don't be afraid to dive in and experiment -- we want your feedback! -- but bear with us, we may break your scripts as we further improve.</div>

The Roll20 API provides a powerful way to customize and enhance your game. It's simple and straightforward to get started, but the possibilities are endless. 

**What do I need to get started?**

Scripts for the Roll20 API are written in Javascript. You only need a basic understanding of the language to get started, but if you want to learn more about Javascript, this [Codecademy course](http://www.codecademy.com/tracks/javascript) can help teach you.

**How does it work?**

You write scripts that listen to events that happen during the game. Scripts can check to make sure that rules are followed, change properties on objects and tokens, and even provide custom chat commands. The scripts you write run across the entire campaign, and affect things the GM does as well as all the players.

# Use Guide

## The Script Editor

(Talk about how to actually edit scripts here)

## Script Format: Listen to Events, Modify Objects

Roll20 API scripts are, at their core, just Javascript files. Any valid Javascript is valid in a Roll20 script (with notable exceptions, listed below). 

Your script will most likely be mostly composed of a number of functions which listen to events that happen during the game. Then it will modify objects that are passed during those events, which will change what happens on the tabletop.

The most basic script which would simply move any piece which moved an additional 5 feet (assuming default page settings) would be:

```javascript
listenTo("graphic:change", function(current, previous) {
	current.left = current.left + 70;
}
```

As you can see, we created a simple function using `listenTo` which will be executed anytime the `graphic:change` event is heard. The function is passed the `current` graphic object and the `previous` graphic object. To make a change, we just modify the `current` object -- whatever properties we change will be detected and changed on the tabletop. (See below for a listing of object types and their properties, as well as a listing of all events and what arguments each event is passed.) 

## Utility Functions

Of course, the previous example isn't incredibly helpful because it always adds 70 pixels to the location of the token. But what if the user has changed their scale so that 5ft is 140 pixels? The Roll20 API provides several handy utility functions to help with this (and other) common scenarios. Let's modify our previous example to use the `distanceToPixels` function, which will tell us how many pixels "five feet" (or inches, or meters, or whatever other distance type has been set) on the tabletop is.

```javascript
listenTo("graphic:change", function(current, previous) {
	current.left = current.left + distanceToPixels(5);
}
```

Now if the current page is setup to use the default grid sizing, `distanceToPixels(5);` will still return `70` pixels, but if the page is setup to have a scale twice the size of normal, it would return `140`. 

It's always a good idea to use utility functions whenever they're available to help keep your script from breaking if the settings of a page or a token change.

# API Reference

Here's a full listing of all the objects, events, and utility functions that are available to you in the Roll20 API.

## Types of Objects

There are several different types of objects that are used throughout the Roll20 API. Here's a quick listing of each, what it is, and what properties it contains (along with the default values).

**Path**

```javascript
{
	id: "-Abc123", //unique ID for this object. globally unique across all objects in this campaign
	fill: "transparent", //fill color. "transparent" or a color HEX
	stroke: "#000000", // stroke color
	rotation: 0, //rotation (in degrees)
	layer: "", //current layer, one of "gmlayer", "objects", "map", "walls" (dynamic lighting) -- Paths on the "walls" layer are automatically used to block light.
	stroke_width: 5,
	width: 0,
	height: 0,
	top: 0,
	left: 0,
	scaleX: 1,
	scaleY: 1,
    _type: "path" //can be used to identify the object as a Path. read-only.
}
```

**Text**

```javascript
{
	id: "-Abc123",
	top: 0,
	left: 0,
	width: 0,
	height: 0,
	text: "",
	font_size: 16, //for best results stick to the pre-sets in the text editing menu
	rotation: 0,
	color: "#000000",
	font_family: "unset", //see values of select element in text editing menu
	layer: "",
    _type: "text" //identifies the object is text. read-only.
}
```

**Graphic** (Token/Map/Card/Etc.)

```javascript
{
	id: "-Abc123",
	left: 0,
	top: 0,
	width: 0,
	height: 0,
	rotation: 0.0,
	layer: "",
	isdrawing: false, //advanced -> is drawing?
	flipv: false, //flip vertically
	fliph: false, //flip horizontally

	name: "", //Token Name
	gmnotes: "", //GM Notes
	bar1_value: "", //Current value of Bar 1 (number OR text)
	bar1_max: "", //Max value of Bar 1
	_bar1_link: "", //Set if Bar 1 is linked to a Character Attrbute. read-only.
	bar2_value: "",
	bar2_max: "",
	_bar2_link: "",
	bar3_value: "",
	bar3_max: "",
	_bar3_link: "",
	aura1_radius: "", //Radius (integer or float) of the aura. Set to empty string for none.
	aura1_color: "#FFFF99", //HEX color
	aura1_square: false, //Is the aura square?
	aura2_radius: "",
	aura2_color: "#59E594",
	aura2_square: false,
	tint_color: "transparent", //HEX color or "transparent"
	status_redmarker: false, //show the red marker on the token
	status_bluemarker: false,
	status_greenmarker: false,
	status_brownmarker: false,
	status_purplemarker: false,
	status_dead: false,
	showname: false, //show the nameplate
	showplayers_name: false, //show the name to all players
	showplayers_bar1: false,
	showplayers_bar2: false,
	showplayers_bar3: false,
	showplayers_aura1: false,
	showplayers_aura2: false,
	playersedit_name: false, // allow controlling players to edit the name. also show the name to controlling players even if showplayers_name is false
	playersedit_bar1: false,
	playersedit_bar2: false,
	playersedit_bar3: false,
	playersedit_aura1: false,
	playersedit_aura2: false,
	light_radius: "", //dynamic lighting radius
	light_dimradius: "", //dim radius
	light_otherplayers: false, //show light to all players
    _type: "graphic" //identifies the object as a graphic. read-only.
}
```

**Player** (Read Only)

```javascript
{
	id: "-Abc123",
    displayname: "", //their display name
    speakingas: "", //current selection in the speakingas drop-down
    online: false, //currently online?
    color: "#13B9F0", //player's color (HEX)
    _isgm: false //are they currently logged in as a GM for this game?
}
```

**Page** (Read Only)

```javascript
{
	id: "-Abc123",
    name: "", //Page's title
    showgrid: true, //are we showing the grid?
    showdarkness: false, //Is the Fog of War active?
    showlighting: false, //Is Dynamic Lighting active?
    width: 25, //width in units
    height: 25, //height in units
    grid_opacity: 0.50, //opacity of the grid
    fog_opacity: 0.35, //opacity of the fog of war for the GM
    background_color: "#ffffff", //background color (HEX)
    gridcolor: "#C0C0C0", //grid color (HEX)
    grid_type: "square", //eitehr "square", "hexv", or "hexh"
    scale_number: 5, //1 unit = how much distance
    scale_units: "ft", //scale is in these units
    gridlabels: false, //show grid labels for hex grid
    diagonaltype: "foure", //one of "foure", "pythagorean" (Euclidean), "threefive", or "manhattan"
}
```

##Global Objects

There are several objects that are globally available anywhere in your script.

`currentPlayer` (Player object) (Read only)

The player currently logged in. 

`activePage` (Page object) (Read only)

The currently active page.

`state`

This is an object that is initialized as a blank object whenver your script is loaded. You can set whatever properties you want on this object, and they are available to all of your event callbacks, and persist between callbacks.

```javascript

state.numTimesTokensMoved = 0;

listenTo("graphic:change", function(current, previous) {
	state.numTimesTokensMoved = state.numTimesTokensMoved + 1;
});
```

##Events

There are several different types of events that you can respond to. In general, each type of object has a corresponding event for changes, additions, and removals. Each event will be triggered once per object that changes. If more than one property on the object changes at the same time, only one event is triggered.

**Callback Parameters**

When you listen to an event, you create a function known as a **callback** that is executed anytime the event occurs. The callback function receives several **parameters** which are objects that tell you information you want to know about the event so you can decide what to do. 

Callback paramters for each event will vary, but include:

`current`
The object as it exists after the change (or changes) occurred. This is the object that is the most important. Any changes you make to this object will also be saved to the game. So if you want to move a Graphic object to the left, you would modify the `left` property of the `current` object.

`previous`
The object as it existed before the change. You can modify this object but it will have no effect, it's purely provided for reference.

**graphic:change**

Triggered whenever a Graphic object (which is almost any type of object on the tabletop, including tokens, maps, and cards) changes.

Callback paramters: `current`, `previous`

```javascript
listenTo("graphic:change", function(current, previous) {
	//Do something with "current" here
});
```

**graphic:add**

Triggered whenever a graphic object is added to the tabletop for the first time. Will *not* be called for existing objects when the table starts up.

Callback parameters: `current`

**graphic:remove**

Triggered whenver a graphic object will be removed from the tabletop.

Callback parameters: `current`

*There are also events for the other two primary object types, Path and Text, which function the same as the graphic events above.*

**path:change**
**path:add**
**path:remove**
**text:change**
**text:add**
**text:remove**

##Utility Functions

Utility functions are provided to help you work with the Roll20 game space consistently. You can call a utility function from anywhere in your scripts (inside any event callback, for example).

**A Note on Distances and Grids in Roll20**

In Roll20, a "unit" is always 70 pixels on the screen. The "unit" is the building block that distance and the grid are built on top of. By default:

* 1 unit = 5 ft
* 1 unit = 1 grid square
* Therefore, 5 ft = 1 unit = 1 square

However, the GM can change both the size of the grid, as well as the scale of the distance. 1 unit is always 70 pixels, but the GM could change the settings such that 1 unit is now 10ft (meaning 70 pixels = 10ft), or that each grid space is 2 units (meaning each grid space is now 140 pixels). So it's important to use conversion functions (provided below) to make sure that you're respecting the game's settings.

**distanceToPixels**(*distance*)

returns: Number of pixels (e.g. `70`)

This function will take in a distance and convert it to pixels based on the currently active page's settings for scale. It's easiest to think of *distance* in terms of *feet*, which is the default distance type. So if you pass in `5` for the `distance` parameter, the function would return the number of pixels in 5 feet based on the scale settings (by default this would be 70 pixels).

```javascript
distanceToPixels(5);
//returns 70
distanceToPixels(1);
//returns 14

//If the scale is 1 unit = 10ft
distanceToPixels(5)
//returns 35
```

**pixelsToDistance**(*pixels*)

returns: Number of distance (e.g. `5`)

This function is the opposite of `distanceToPixels`, and will take in a number of pixels and tell you the distance that those pixels are based on the scale.

```javascript
listenTo("graphic:change", function(current, previous) {
	var pixels_moved_left = current.left - previous.left;
    //How much distance is that?
    var distance_moved_left = pixelsToDistance(pixels_moved_x);
    //And what type of distance?
    activePage.scale_units; // "ft", "m", "km", etc.
});
```

**distanceToUnits**(*distance*)

returns: Number of units (e.g. `1`)

You could use distanceToPixels and do some simple math to figure the number of units (remember: 1 unit is always 70 pixels), but this convenience function is here to help make your life easier.

```javascript
//Default scale of 1 unit = 5ft
distanceToUnits(5);
//returns 1

//Modified scale of 1 unit = 10ft
distanceToUnits(5);
//returns 0.50
```

**unitsToDistance**(*units*)

returns: Number of distance (e.g. `5`)

Opposite of `distanceToUnits`.




